Mixpanel Mapping Updates (#381)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: destinations/analytics/mixpanel.mdx

- **Page Tracking Options**: For device mode, RudderStack offers three options for the `page` calls. Refer to the [**Page web device mode settings**](https://rudderstack.com/docs/destinations/analytics/mixpanel#page-web-device-mode-settings) section below for more information on these options.
- **Source Name**: If specified, RudderStack sends this source name to Mixpanel for every event/`page`/`screen` call.
- **Cross Subdomain Cookie**: If enabled, this option lets the Mixpanel cookie to persist between different pages of your application.
- **Persistence Type**: This option lets you choose the persistence type for your Mixpanel cookies.
- **Secure Cookie**: Enabling this option will mark the Mixpanel cookie as secure, i.e., it will only transmit over HTTPS.
- **Group Key Settings**: RudderStack sends the `group` calls to Mixpanel only if one or more group keys are specified here. For more information, refer to the [**Group**](https://rudderstack.com/docs/destinations/analytics/mixpanel#group) section below.

> - **Client-side Events Filtering**: Refer to the [**Client-side Events Filtering](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/stream-sources/rudderstack-sdk-integration-guides/event-filtering/) guide for more information on this feature.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Client-side Events Filtering**: Refer to the [**Client-side Events Filtering**](https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/stream-sources/rudderstack-sdk-integration-guides/event-filtering/) guide for more information on this feature.
```

The following event map setting is only applicable if you are sending events to Mixpanel via the cloud mode:

- **Use Old Mapping**: This option is enabled by default and sends the first name and last name as:

    `$firstName : "John"`
 
    `$lastName : "Keener"`
 
  If this option is disabled, RudderStack will map these fields to Mixpanel in the following way :
 
   `$first_name : "John"`
 
   `$last_name : "Keener"`

## Page

> RudderStack passes all the page properties that you provide via the `page` call along with the properties to Mixpanel. RudderStack sets the event name as **Page** for a `page` call and **Screen** for a `screen` call. 

Author: RudderStack passes all the page properties that you provide via the `page` call _along with the properties_ to Mixpanel.

'along with the properties' is bit unclear. Is it like 'along with the other properties'?

Reviewer: Yes here along with means the default properties which are collected for every event call. You can make it to 'along with the other properties'.

Reviewer 2: Sure, will make this change.

A sample `page` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.page();
```

### Page web device mode settings

Rudderstack will send 1 event to Mixpanel per `page` call.

For device mode, RudderStack offers the following three options for `page` calls:

- **Track All Pages with a Consolidated Event Name**: This setting is enabled by default. RudderStack sends all the `page` and `screen` calls with the name `Loaded a Page` with the corresponding properties of the call. This lets you leverage Mixpanel's reporting capabilities for page/screen analytics in the best possible way.

<div class="infoBlock">

This option is given the highest precedence even if the following two options are enabled in the RudderStack dashboard:
<ul>
<li>Track Categorized Pages to Mixpanel</li>
<li>Track Named Pages to Mixpanel</li>

> </ul>

Author: <li>Track Categorized Pages to Mixpanel</li>
<li>Track Named Pages to Mixpanel</li>
Can remove their listing from here as they are explained just below

Reviewer 2: Sure.

- **Track Named Pages to Mixpanel**: RudderStack also tracks the named pages to Mixpanel. If you enable this setting in the dashboard, RudderStack will send a `Viewed [page_name] Page` event. Note that this option has the least precedence and comes to effect only if the above two options are disabled in the RudderStack dashboard.

<div class="warningBlock">

RudderStack expects atleast one of the three options listed above to be enabled for sending the <code class="inline-code">page</code> events to Mixpanel using device mode.
</div>

## Identify

To identify a user in Mixpanel, you need to call RudderStack's `identify` method. 

Mixpanel needs a unique identifier to identify a user. If you provide `userId` in your `identify` call, RudderStack will pass it to Mixpanel as `distinct_id` . If `userId` is not present, RudderStack sends an `anonymousId` and sets the traits as the properties corresponding to `distinct_id`.

> After making this request, RudderStack merges `anonymousId` and `userId` as `distinct_id` and the new `userId` is mapped to `alias`, so that both of these users are mapped to a single entity in Mixpanel.

Reviewer 3: @ameypv-rudder I checked the code the way this section is written it's misleading

If the user has passed `userId` and `anonymousId`  also `apiSecret` (part of destination config), Rudderstack first makes an Identify call using the `userId` and other `traits` then Rudderstack calls Merge API of mixpanel where it passes `userId` and `anonymousId` so that these two identifiers are glued to a single profile in Mixpanel.

> After making this request, RudderStack merges `anonymousId` and `userId` as `distinct_id` and the new `userId` is mapped to `alias`, so that both of these users are mapped to a single entity in Mixpanel.

Reviewer: Yes this line was wrong, the correct line might be 
"_After making this request, RudderStack merges `previousId` or `anonymousId` and `userId`. It maps `previousId` or `anonymousId` to `distinct_id` and `userId` to `alias`, so that both of these users are mapped to a single entity in Mixpanel_" 
CC @utsabc

> After making this request, RudderStack merges `anonymousId` and `userId` as `distinct_id` and the new `userId` is mapped to `alias`, so that both of these users are mapped to a single entity in Mixpanel.

Reviewer 2: Thanks @utsabc. In this case, it seems we are using Mixpanel's [Merge Identities](https://developer.mixpanel.com/reference/identity-merge) function which requires an API secret. In our dashboard settings, that's not a required field. So, what if the user does not specify the API secret? 

Do we support their [Create Identity](https://developer.mixpanel.com/reference/create-identity) endpoint which also maps userId and anonymousId?

> After making this request, RudderStack merges `anonymousId` and `userId` as `distinct_id` and the new `userId` is mapped to `alias`, so that both of these users are mapped to a single entity in Mixpanel.

Reviewer 3: @ameypv-rudder  If the user did not specify API secret we will not be using Merge Identities post identify call. Also checking code we are not supporting the Create Identity endpoint at this moment

> After making this request, RudderStack merges `anonymousId` and `userId` as `distinct_id` and the new `userId` is mapped to `alias`, so that both of these users are mapped to a single entity in Mixpanel.

Reviewer 2: Got it, will update the section accordingly.

- **Persistence Type**: This option lets you choose the persistence type for your Mixpanel cookies.
- **Secure Cookie**: Enabling this option will mark the Mixpanel cookie as secure, i.e it will only transmit over HTTPs.
- **Group Key Settings**: RudderStack sends the `group` calls to Mixpanel only if one or more group keys are specified here. For more information, check out the [**Group**](https://rudderstack.com/docs/destinations/analytics/mixpanel#group) section below.
- **Use Old Mapping**: This option is enabled by default and sends the first name and last name as:

    `$firstName : "John"`
 
    `$lastName : "Keener"`
 

>   If disabled, it will send them as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If this option is disabled, RudderStack will map these fields to Mixpanel in the following way :
```

- **Persistence Type**: This option lets you choose the persistence type for your Mixpanel cookies.
- **Secure Cookie**: Enabling this option will mark the Mixpanel cookie as secure, i.e it will only transmit over HTTPs.
- **Group Key Settings**: RudderStack sends the `group` calls to Mixpanel only if one or more group keys are specified here. For more information, check out the [**Group**](https://rudderstack.com/docs/destinations/analytics/mixpanel#group) section below.
- **Use Old Mapping**: This option is enabled by default and sends the first name and last name as:

    `$firstName : "John"`
 
    `$lastName : "Keener"`
 
  If disabled, it will send them as:
 
   `$first_name : "John"`
 
   `$last_name : "Keener"`

> 

Reviewer: In line 69 it is written these options are for device mode. So putting this setting under this is misleading.

- `$email`
- `$phone`
- `$avatar`
- `$city`
- `$country_code`
- `$region`
- `$unsubscribed`

<div class="warningBlock">

You should not create custom properties that begin with a <code class="inline-code">$</code> sign.
</div>

### Mixpanel People

Rudderstack does not send data to Mixpanel People by default, as it usually requires you to upgrade your Mixpanel account. If you want to use this feature, you can enable the **Use Mixpanel People** option in the Rudderstack dashboard.

> We recommend identifying the user traits without the `userId` if you wish to add the people properties in Mixpanel before knowing the `userId`. To do so, refer to the following snippet:

Author: ```suggestion
You can identify the user traits without the `userId` if you wish to add the people properties in Mixpanel before knowing the `userId`. To do so, refer to the following snippet:
```

A sample revenue `track` call is as shown:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.track("Purchase", {
  revenue: 100,
  currency: "USD"
});
```

### Tracking charge

If **Use Mixpanel People** setting is enabled in your RudderStack dashboard and you include `revenue` as an event property, RudderStack will track a charge for the current user.

## Alias

The `alias` call lets you associate multiple identities of a known user. 

A sample `alias` call is as shown:

```javascript
analytics.alias('userId', `previousId`);
```

## Group

The `group` call lets you link an identified user with a group, such as a company, organization, or an account. It also lets you record any custom traits associated with that group like the name of the company, the number of employees, etc.

<div class="infoBlock">

For more information on how the <code class="inline-code">group</code> call works in Mixpanel, refer to Mixpanel's <a href="https://help.mixpanel.com/hc/en-us/articles/360025333632-Group-Analytics">Group Analytics documentation</a>.
</div>

RudderStack lets you record the custom traits associated with a user group and send this information to Mixpanel.

> A sample `group` call is shown below:

Reviewer 2: This is not a valid `group` event that we generally highlight in our docs but rather a payload. Could you please share a sample `group` call, or can we use any generic `group` example? @utsabc @ItsSudip

Reviewer: You can convert the group call as follows:
```
rudderanalytics.group(
        "sample_group_id",
        {
          name: "Tech group",
          industry: "Technology",
          employees: 100,
        },
        {
          context: {
            traits: {
              trait1: "orgtrait",
            },
            library: {
              name: "http",
            },
          },
        }
      );
```

Reviewer 3: The earlier was not a valid example good catch

```javascript
analytics.alias('userId', `previousId`);
```

## Group

The `group` call lets you link an identified user with a group, such as a company, organization, or an account. It also lets you record any custom traits associated with that group like the name of the company, the number of employees, etc.

<div class="infoBlock">

For more information on how the <code class="inline-code">group</code> call works in Mixpanel, refer to Mixpanel's <a href="https://help.mixpanel.com/hc/en-us/articles/360025333632-Group-Analytics">Group Analytics documentation</a>.
</div>

RudderStack lets you record the custom traits associated with a user group and send this information to Mixpanel.

A sample `group` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.group(
  "sample_group_id", {
    name: "Tech group",
    industry: "Technology",
    employees: 100,
  }
);
```

RudderStack sends the `group` calls to Mixpanel only if one or more group keys are specified during the destination configuration in RudderStack, as shown:

<img src="../../assets/event-stream-destinations/mixpanel-group-key-settings.png" alt="Mixpanel group key settings" />

<div class="warningBlock">

> You must create the group key/s of the same name in your Mixpanel <a href="https://help.mixpanel.com/hc/en-us/articles/360025333632-Group-Analytics#implementation">project settings</a>. To administer the group keys, navigate to your project settings and click on <strong>Add Group Key</strong> under <strong>Group Keys</strong>.

Author: ```suggestion
You must create the group key(s) of the same name in your Mixpanel <a href="https://help.mixpanel.com/hc/en-us/articles/360025333632-Group-Analytics#implementation">project settings</a>. To administer the group keys, navigate to your project settings and click on <strong>Add Group Key</strong> under <strong>Group Keys</strong>.
```

| Mixpanel Properties | RudderStack Properties |
| :------------------ | :--------------------- |
| `$created`           | `created`             |
| `$email`             | `email`               |
| `$first_name`        | `firstName`           |
| `$last_name`         | `lastName`            |
| `$last_seen`         | `lastSeen`            |
| `$name`              | `name`                |
| `$username`          | `username`            |
| `$phone`             | `phone`               |
| `$city`              | `city`                |
| `$region`            | `region`              |

> | `$country_code`      | `country`             |

Reviewer 3: @ishachopra0401  minor last-minute change
| Mixpanel Properties | RudderStack Properties |
| :------------------ | :--------------------- |
| :------------------ | :--------------------- |
| `created`           | `$created`             |
| `$created`           | `created`             |
| `email`             | `$email`               |
| `$email`             | `email`               |
| `firstName`         | `$first_name`          |
| `$first_name`        | `firstName`           |
| `lastName`          | `$last_name`           |
| `$last_name`         | `lastName`            |
| `lastSeen`          | `$last_seen`           |
| `$last_seen`         | `lastSeen`            |
| `name`              | `$name`                |
| `$name`              | `name`                |
| `username`          | `$username`            |
| `$username`          | `username`            |
| `phone`             | `$phone`               |
| `$phone`             | `phone`               |
| `$city`              | `city` / `address.city`                |
| `$region`            | `region` / `address.state`             |
| `$country_code`      | `country`  /`address.country`           |

Author: done
